# Purpose
The purpose of this database is to operationalize and streamline the organization, storage and accumulation of cerebrovascular physiology data from healthy volunteers and individuals with comorbidities ranging from a current or prior brain injury to those with cardiometabolic disease. Inclusion of data into this database will require a minimum standard set of variables, henceforth collectively referred to as priority data elements. However, this database is also amenable to the inclusion of additional cerebrovascular variables that may be collected at a lesser frequency as a part of individual studies included within the database in relation to their specific aims. These data elements will be henceforth collectively referred to as additional data elements.

# Background
We tend to view the neuronal brain as the base of our perceptions, our personhood, our motivations, our actions, and the repository of the experiences that constitute our lives. However, the brain is not simply a neural organ: it is a neurovascular organ. The vascular component does not merely play a supporting role; it is an intimate and fully integrated partner. The neural component of the brain requires precise control of cerebral blood flow (CBF) by the vascular component to maintain oxygen and substrate delivery, removal of waste products, cerebral metabolic homeostasis, acid-base balance, and to buffer pressure transmission to the microvasculature. Reductions in cerebral oxygen delivery can be asymptomatic, or lead to a spectrum of symptoms including cognitive deficits (with or without insight), dizziness, headache, unconsciousness, seizure, and ultimately death (Rossen et al., 1943). Acute uncompensated vascular insufficiency may lead to localizing neurological symptoms and signs. In addition, blood flow may be sufficient in that baseline flow is adequate for the maintenance of cellular integrity and function, but insufficient to provide appropriate augmentation to meet the needs of neurovascular activation. Such limitations show few symptoms or signs but are thought to be associated with progressive cognitive decline (Silvestrini et al., 2006; Balucani et al., 2012)  and cortical thinning on imaging (Fierstra et al., 2010). On the other hand, lifelong exercise has been demonstrated to preserve cognitive function (Colcombe & Kramer, 2003; Larson et al., 2006) and cortical mass (Colcombe et al., 2003; Wood et al., 2016). Equally important for cerebral function is the maintenance of acid-base balance as tight control of cerebral pH is critical for enzymatic function and ultimately cellular survival. 
Therefore, stringent maintenance of optimal CBF is required to avoid a wide array of perturbations that may jeopardize the health and functioning of the brain. Failure to do so can lead to catastrophic consequences, stemming largely from the brain’s disproportionate metabolisms and lack of appreciable substrate storage. Indeed, requiring >10 times the oxygen expected for its mass, the brain is extremely vulnerable to injury. Complete cessation of cerebral blood supply precipitates unconsciousness in as little as 4 seconds, irreversible neurological damage in minutes, seizure, and death ensues not long thereafter. To combat this extreme vulnerability to oxygen deprivation, humans possess physiological ‘defense mechanisms’ with the teleological purpose of maintaining cerebral metabolic homeostasis during physiologic perturbations, aging, and disease. These ‘defense mechanisms’ or rather compensatory physiological processes include but are not limited to:

1.	Neurovascular coupling: the spatial and temporal matching of cerebral blood flow and oxygen delivery to cerebral metabolic demand.
2.	Cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity: the sensitivity of the cerebral vasculature to changes in arterial partial pressure of CO2 (PCO2), whereby increases and decreases in arterial PCO2 lead to increases and decreases in cerebral blood flow, respectively.
3.	Cerebral autoregulation: intrinsic changes in cerebral blood vessel calibre that act to mitigate changes in cerebral blood flow in the face of changes in arterial blood pressure.
4.	Hypoxic cerebral vasodilation: increases in cerebral blood flow during a reduction in arterial oxygen content that acts to maintain cerebral oxygen delivery.
These key physiologic processes, and other aspects of cerebrovascular regulation that maintain cerebral metabolic homeostasis are widely significant due to their applicability in the pathophysiology of multiple diseases and associations with long-term mortality and morbidity (Portegies et al., 2014; Wolters et al., 2016, 2017; Beishon et al., 2017).

# Objectives
The overarching objective of this database is to further our understanding of the regulation of cerebral blood flow in humans, and associations between cerebrovascular function and disease. This overarching aim is comprised of a growing number of sub-aims including, but not limited to, the following:
1.	Determine the influence of age and biological sex on neurovascular coupling in humans
2.	Determine changes in neurovascular coupling longitudinally with aging
3.	Conduct multivariate analyses to determine the key determinants of resting cerebral blood flow in humans
4.	Determine how resting cerebral blood flow and cerebrovascular function are altered in differing disease states across the lifespan

## DATA ELEMENTS
The general data elements included in the database are listed below as **priority** data elements and **additional** data elements. Priority data elements should be available for every entry into the database, while the additional data elements should be included if available and based upon individual study protocols. Individual specific data elements are listed in Appendix A: Data Elements.
Priority data elements
1.	**Study Information:** This form has 13 data fields and serves to collect information pertaining to the specific study that the data was originally collected in, such as the institution, ethics approval number, and date of collection. This form will allow users to select which Additional Data Element is applicable and visible for data entry. 
3.	**Identifying Information:** This form has 4 data fields and serves to collect information pertaining to the participant from which the data was collected. This includes their name, contact details, and medical records number. This form is vital to facilitate contact for follow-up experiments as well as to acquire clinical data where applicable. The data fields on this form have been tagged as identifiers and user accessibility to this data will be selective. 
4.	**Demographics:** This form has 7 data fields and serves to collect data pertaining to the participants age, biological sex, gender, race/ethnicity, and socioeconomic status.
5.	**Anthropometrics:** This form has 4 data fields and serves to collect information pertaining to the participants height, body mass, and waist circumference.
6.	**Health History:** This form has 30 data fields and serves to collect information pertaining to the participants health history and current health status, such as the presence or absence of various diseases.
7.	**Baseline Physiology:** This form has 48 data fields and serves to collect data pertaining to baseline physiologic metrics such as resting blood pressure and cerebral blood flow.
8.	**Neurovascular Coupling:** This form has 24 data fields and serves to collect data pertaining to the matching of cerebral blood flow to cerebral metabolic demand, such as the peak increase in cerebral blood flow observed during neural activation.

The above listed data elements each comprise a unique data entry form in the REDCap database, with all fields required for inclusion of a record in the database. Therefore, each record will have a minimum of 130 data fields, which will enable the investigation of Objectives 1 & 2 and support the investigation of Objectives 3 & 4. This database also includes optional forms to expand the breadth of data where possible to include multiple additional and important data elements pertaining to cerebrovascular function and health. These are listed below:

Additional data elements
1.  **CO2 Reactivity Test:** This form serves to collect data recorded during a CO2 reactivity test such as test method, blood gases, blood chemistry, blood flow and blood pressure.
2.	**Hypoxic Reactivity Test:** This form serves to collect data recorded during a hypoxic reactivity test such as test method, blood gases, blood flow and blood pressure.
3.	**Transient CO2 Reactivity Test:** This form serves to collect data recorded during a CO2 reactivity test such as blood gases, blood gases, blood flow and shear stress.
4.	**Blood Chemistry:** This form serves to collect information pertaining to participants’ hematology profiles.
5.	**Cerebral Autoregulation:** This form serves to collect information pertaining to cerebral autoregulation, including the method of assessing autoregulation and the related outcomes.
6.	**Cardiorespiratory Fitness:** This form serves to collect information pertaining to cardiorespiratory fitness testing including the testing modality and measured VO2max.
